today I'll be breaking down my biggest
video ever called the real reason
McDonald's ice cream machines are always
broken it has 12 million views were you
scared to make this video I mean you're
calling out one of the biggest companies
after I published it like everyone was
like dude McDonald's corporate's going
to come after you it's just insane like
drama to watch like she just was super
snarky it was perfect style of editing
it just makes it feel like the world is
talking about it that's a really
satisfying very YouTube kind of
experience like am I watching YouTube am
I watching Netflix I love that you blow
to the lines it's hype it's a buckle up
it's a retention mechanism We crave more
of this should I care I'll click oh I
should care this is a massive problem if
I could roast this what would you've
done differently
now you're very good at what you
[Music]
do before we get into it make sure you
subscribe and ring the bell because we
have so many big videos coming up I I
can't wait to show you guys a video that
we just shot here more interviews more
Studio tours more video breakdowns with
the world's biggest YouTubers so hit
that button so you don't miss it and now
back to the video today I'm breaking
down my biggest video ever which is
called the real reason McDonald's ice
cream machines are always broken kind of
a crazy one I want to give you some
behind the scenes on how this all came
to be let's get into it I'm
investigating McDonald's ice cream
machines who wants to go get ice cream
me oh I take your order can I get an ice
cream cone we don't have ice cream right
now not today not today maybe tomorrow
or something or next week I don't know
does that happen a lot like that the
machine's down yeah in this one yeah why
go to McDonald's and like why why why do
that you already kind of set it up you
know what I was realizing with this
topic in particular is that it was a
universal experience there was a meme
almost about it the conspiracy theory
about the ice cream machines came
because people would go they would
document their experience and they'd be
like infuriated like I just want to make
flurry and it was always down so I kind
of wanted to reference that Meme a
little bit to be like this happened to
me and it was kind of just Baseline
proof like hey this happens I went to a
random McDonald's like I just showed up
to one I think the fact that it was with
my kids was just like a Charming little
personal thing I don't do that as much
anymore because I don't want to like
show my kids on camera but like this was
one of those moments where I was like
this just is relatable you know and I
think that instead of going right into
the cerebral stuff it's like make it
human make it vloggy and that kind of
inform formalizes it a little bit people
have taken notice that the ice cream
machines at McDonald's always seem to be
down the ice cream machine part is not
working the broken ice cream machines at
McDonald have been the fod for a lot of
weird internet culture a couple months
ago I got an email from a guy who said
that he had a deeper story he said that
they are important questions that no one
is asking and he promised me answers to
those questions and data and evidence to
back it up Johnny you talk a lot about
visual anchors is this one of them what
are they how do they fold into your
creative process absolutely so visual
anchors can be highly visual in the
sense that like you see it and you know
exactly what's going on or they can be
something like this an anonymous
whistleblower email it was actually a
patreon message that like no matter who
you are you wake up to the fact that
you're like oh something's going on here
it intrigues you and I think that that's
a key ingredient to good storytelling so
in this case early on even though I
don't get to explaining this for a long
time I wanted the viewer to know hey I
got a tip and it's potentially juicy and
to almost set up the video as I'm going
to figure out how juicy this tip really
is and I love that you didn't tell us
who gave you this email like their
background like if they have alterior
motives Until the End yes yeah um which
we'll talk about one together but I
thought that was a genius way to just C
create more curiosity absolutely yeah
cuz most people would have just gave
that away yeah he even said that there's
potentially something nefarious going on
here I was like okay cool another
conspiracy theory about these McDonald's
ice cream makers but I decided to dive
in anyway and see this evidence for
myself I started looking at data at
internal McDonald's emails at these
mind-numbing 100 page instruction
manuals for ice cream makers I love that
you didn't just like say I did a ton of
research showing us all the paperwork
and feeling the density of that I feel
like gives this more life and gives you
more credit absolutely that's a big
thing part of it is I am super dyslexic
and so in my real life I print things
all the time to read them and I realized
like oh this is a prop like I can show
the audience that I use paper and in the
process imbue kind of credibility that
like I'm actually in the weeds with this
which is a very real thing but instead
of me just scrolling on a screen this
gives you a more kind of tactile
experience and I find that as the world
gets more digital We crave more of this
totally we want We crave a sense of like
paper real paper real experience and and
I crave it always and I think people
identify and then it's sort of become a
meme on my channel that like always
always printing stuff off like carbon
footprint etc etc and I'm just like this
is how I ingest information and it also
is like a nice prop yeah it's almost
like Casey ni I feel like that like
handwriting like like major inspiration
absolutely I love it it turns out there
is something really weird going on here
something that hasn't been reported on
before and something that shows that
McDonald's broken ice cream machines
actually reveal a bigger story about how
big businesses protect one another even
if that means hurting their
customers if I could roast this though
Johnny cuz You' come a long way do you
think you could have shortened this
intro definitely yeah or what you've
done differently now I mean gotten to
the promise like what I just said right
there was the promise it was like
something actually is going on here I'm
going to show it to you instead I did a
lot of this indulgent kind of like I
went through I kind of gave a preview of
the whole video um which I still kind of
do but I do it in much shorter terms I
think I could have gotten through this
in 90 seconds instead of like a few
minutes yeah yeah I never thought I'd be
going down a deep investigation into ice
cream makers
but I am and I did and I want to share
with you what I
learned McDonald's is getting on my
[__] nerves and the Machine is always
Dam the ice cream machine is broken and
if we try to pull the lever this will
happen sorry the ice cream machine is
broken the broken McDonald's ice cream
machine epidemic has been so widespread
for so long that it's a I love this
style of editing it just makes it feel
like the world is talking about it
totally and that's
that's what we do and again I think we
did
a too long one but like it shows that
this is a thing and if you've never
heard about it you should hear about it
and shout out to Jack Joyce my editor at
the time who was also the producer he
did this amazing intro edit and I think
it really got the viewers hyped and like
ready to go and I think it's all the
more necessary when it's a topic that
maybe somebody doesn't know about or
like your other videos like why is
breakfast dessert or like those
questions it's like wait should I care
I'll click oh I should care I should
care yes and this sort of helps prove
that I love it it's a me you know what
they're going to say you already know
the ice cream machine is
broken ice cream machine is
[Music]
broken kind of sounds like there's you
stylize your title sequences differently
yeah in a lot of your videos like yeah
every video we do is a different art
Direction with different graphic design
different color palettes when we do
these title sequences and like a a slate
at the end like this we want it to be
some composite of imagery some like
thing that could live on its own as a
graphic design again shout out to Jack
the editor he really designed this
nicely and like it it's just a fun frame
that like it has the machine back here
it has the McFlurries it has
spreadsheets it's a it's a really cool
just like composite and I I love the
idea of having a new art direction for
every video it just makes it fun for me
this also makes it feel more elevated it
feels like I'm like am I watching
YouTube am I watch watch Netflix I'm not
sure know let's pass forward to this
moment in the video where you go to
Wendy's to compare to their um ice cream
[Music]
machines do you guys have frosties yeah
I was just at McDonald's and the ice
cream machine was broken and it seems
like it always is is the ice cream
machine broken here very often no yeah
that's a McDonald's problem we wash our
machines every single oh that's cool is
it easy to do that or is it pretty
complicated no it's actually really easy
to clean it there's just laser
it's the honest truth it's the honest
truth oh I got so lucky there I mean
both on both sides the fact that they're
like I don't know like on at the
McDonald's are like it's broken maybe
next week and the fact that this lady
was super snarky it was just like thank
you I didn't have to that was the first
time on both of those I didn't go
through and like try to get like
different lines she just was super
snarky it was perfect yeah and what's
crazy is that they use the same brand of
machine as McDonald's does and yet they
don't have a MC broken it's not an
internet meme for them nor is it for
other places that use the same brand of
ice cream maker like in andout or
Chick-fil-A or a bunch of others so why
is it only McDonald's that has a problem
with the broken ice cream maker I feel
like it's so you keep asking questions
that raise the stakes yeah and Define in
a in an Evidence way I just Pro to you
like they don't have this and and yet
it's the same machine so there's
something going on here it's like I'm
not telling them I'm asking the question
together with them and I think that's
one of the reasons this video did well
is like people were along on the journey
and it and they were discovering with me
and like that's a really satisfying very
YouTube kind of experience of like join
me on this journey of Discovery and I'm
just a normal guy out there with a
camera trying to to learn I think that
that's some a really relatable
experience so let's fast forward to this
part in the video where you establish
like who's really getting hurt by all
this if you want a real answer on this
you need to talk to the people who
suffer the most when these machines
broken which actually isn't McDonald's
corporate it's the people who own these
individual restaurants or franchises
these are the people who pay the price
in Lost Revenue when the machine is
broken so I ask you to bear with me as
we learn how an ice cream machine at
McDonald's works and why they always
break once you understand that you will
understand who is getting rich every
time one of these things breaks how do
you think about the music coming in
there cuz we we just you gave us a lot
of um talking head there and and and
Exposition like how do you think about
that music real quick my favorite part
of the video is coming up and that's
where Johnny shows exactly how he uses
music to add more emotion to his videos
which brings me to today's sponsor Lick
Lick has the world's biggest catalog of
licensed mainstream music with over 1.4
million tracks from Dual Lipa Bruno Mars
and more and there's no other service
that gives you off-the-shelf mainstream
music licenses for YouTube and best of
all lick protects you from all copyright
claims so you keep your AdSense money I
mean just check out how my past video
sounds without
lick and now with a track from
[Music]
licked a recent study even found that
mainstream music increased views by 14%
And up to 40% for certain verticals and
with YouTube getting even more
competitive every little detail matters
I mean you wouldn't upload your video
with a boring thumbnail so why would you
do it with music so use this link to try
lick to get unlimited royalty-free music
and premium mainstream track so you get
the Perfect soundtrack for your next
video all right now back to it in this
case I wanted to say like all right
we're going to divert to this other
section I'm going to signpost that
there's more to come but first let's
pull on this thread how the Machine
Works you have to understand it bear
with me and the music cue that starts
there is like a buckle up like we're
going to dive into this thing and it's
kind of hoping that the people won't
like click away cuz we're about to get
into a manual yeah so I I sort of the
music queue is meant to like hype a
little bit yeah because you need it cuz
it's like and I think setting
expectation this might be a little this
part is going to get tedious but the
music help like kind of but I promise
it's worth it like stick around and then
like Montage yeah and why they have an
incentive to keep them
broken I'm going I guess it's going to
be around like 5% and it came back I
love that you can make a montage out of
anything you know insane one question
that needs to be asked is should you be
building ice cream machines if after
years and this is just insane like drama
to watch okay so then you talk about
like the cost to the franchises which is
this crazy like they have to pay $144
for 30 minutes of service for you know
this company tayor um which we'll find
out is in cahoots with McDonald ex to
come fix these things that should easily
like be running and then you say this
and you this is my favorite part of the
video yeah this is where this is where
to me it clicked in terms of like my
understanding and I wanted to create the
same click for the viewer and that's
what this part is yeah I worked in fast
food in high school it's a chaotic world
you're just trying to make people happy
meanwhile the
person run the heat cycle it fails again
Ric manag you have angry people asking
for ice cream and everyone's just saying
like yeah the ice cream machine's down
sorry we can't do anything about it so
finally the manager calls the franchise
owner the owner of the business and says
what do we do and the franchise owner
says we need to get ice cream sales
going this is not okay we're losing
money just call the guy just call the
guy that like I feel like catharsis like
watching that yeah because it's like it
makes me feel like the franchise owner
like it's just pure chaos and I'm like
now the ice cream machine is broken just
call the guy and pay the damn money
totally not realizing like the the you
know higher power and the Monopoly at
play incentives at play and you can see
in this image right here we we Circle
and we do this throughout but we Circle
um this is a flowchart for
troubleshooting the machine and so many
of these decision trees come down to
call the service technician call the
service technician call the service
technician call the meaning if this then
call the service technician so it it's
almost like their own manual
incentivizes these franchise owners to
be like I've tried these five things my
only last thing to do is to call the
service technician all roads lead back
to calling the service technician which
is exactly the business model that
Taylor who sells the the machine and is
the only one who authorized to work on
it benefits a lot of money like that
that's a big business for them
essentially call a technician is like
pay $300 pay $300 call the guy call the
guy call the guy you're in rush hour you
want to get this fixed just call the guy
just call the guy yeah Jesus now we're
getting to the heart of this the guy in
this case means one guy or woman which
is an authorized service technician from
Taylor the company who makes the machine
turns out that Taylor is the only
company that is authorized to repair and
maintain these machines it's in their
contract if you call anyone else but
Taylor first off they wouldn't know how
to use it cuz it's such a strange
esoteric machine but also you would void
your contract your warranty so you call
the service technician he or she comes
to fix the machine we got our hands on
some actual invoices that show how much
these tailor repair people cost it's
different in every market and for every
scenario but somewhere to the tune of
$144 for the first 30 minutes and then
up to hundreds of dollars for each
additional 15 minutes thereafter and
this is where like the nefarious stuff
that seems kind of silly at first you
start to realize that like between
Taylor and McDonald's there is this like
corporate like collusion of some kinds
and however you define collusion but
like something is happening to keep this
machine bad and like it doesn't happen
at Wendy's it doesn't happen anywhere
else it just happens in this
relationship put this one machine and
anyone tries to ask questions it's it
becomes an issue were you scared to make
this video I I mean you're calling out
one of the biggest companies in the
world I'm not I wasn't scared because I
felt so Rock Solid like we had such good
primary source evidence yet after I
published it like everyone was like dude
like McDonald's corporate's going to
like come after you they didn't um and
and I you know I reached out to them for
comment even and told them what I was
doing and I I think when you have a
piece like this this that's very
buttoned up they they just sort of stay
silent Johnny this next part you like
you do such a good job of bringing stats
but then you make me care about them um
I want to talk about how you do that the
real Target for Mass Industrial Products
is
99.999 66% of the time your product is
working that means 3.14 errors for every
1 million opportunities what you're
seeing here with 15% is a Disney
failure and it is the product of no
pressure or no incentive to improve so
what I was trying to do here is show
that like in a lot of software or a lot
of like uh professional B2B business
type things there is a standard that is
so high if your product is failing uh
three times out of a million that's like
code red the fact that they're 1,000
times per 1 million is like so what I
tried to do here is do a visualization
that shows just how huge of a failure
rate this is compared to like the
standard to demonstrate this is a
massive problem this is a massive
problem that they're somehow okay with
because someone's getting really rich
yeah CU 15% I mean to the average person
may not sound like a high number but it
is a astronomically High number in a
world that is compared against you know
like the Six Sigma kind of standard of
like you know very very low failure
rates so it just demonstrates that like
this is a artificially
inflated kind of situation that like
that they have been able to boy up
through through this kind of collusion
and Monopoly that's just not cool and it
doesn't and this is sort of trying to
prove like this is not what's best for
the customer yeah and Taylor is making
the money because of these yes exactly
like someone's getting rich off of this
but here's what's going on the guy who
reached out to me originally was someone
named Jeremy he's a tech entrepreneur he
invented a product that could basically
fix this problem of like terrible
feedback to the user of these ice cream
machines it's this device that you plug
into your ice cream maker and it
connects with your phone and it gives
you solid reporting on all the things
happening in your ice cream machine
something that this does not do there's
this product that this guy came up with
to fix this to give like better
reporting to the franchise owners so
that they know what to do so they don't
have to call the guy because the product
the dashboard is just is confusing it's
so confusing and it does and the manual
doesn't actually give you a lot of data
so he invented a product that you can
plug in with a USB
and get way more information on all
these confusing codes that are like on
your phone and you can actually make
modifications to it on your phone yeah
and they can like train their employees
to help avoid this now let me just
caveat for a second Jeremy and his
company kit obviously have a big
Financial stake in this story I'm aware
that he reached out to me and gave me
some of this data and that there's a big
conflict of interest in terms of like
neutral journalism and my informant
being somebody who stands to gain a lot
of money so we just revealed who sent
you that initial email exactly yeah and
it's so important that this disclosure
happens the viewer is going to know it
the viewer is going to be smart enough I
needed to call this out and I approached
the whole thing being very Cy about this
Source because I'm like dude you're in a
lawsuit with these people you have so
much to gain you have every incentive in
the world that they're the bad guy and
you're the good guy I need to make sure
that that I'm calibrated to those
incentives and so everything he sent
that's why it took so long everything he
sent me I had to triple verify without
going through him which is really hard
cuz he gave me a lot of good stuff it
all checked out in the end and and
that's why I was able to report on all
this so important to do especially for
you know the lines being blurred between
YouTube and you know totally I didn't
need to do this there's no code of
ethics but for my relationship with my
audience and for my own ethics this is
like a no-brainer 100% and that's why
this story has taken me literally months
to report I've had to go through and
independently report and verify every
single thing that Jeremy has told me
hence this so yes while there is a major
stake for Jeremy and kitch for this
story and for exactly what I'm saying
here the fact is everything that I have
said here checks out on my own
independent reporting okay so Johnny
this part is just the punchline and
where everything like comes together um
let let me play it and I have two
questions again is this a deep
conspiracy is there like secret back
door deals going on no this is actually
horribly predictable what this is is
these old companies who are afraid of
being disrupted by smarter better
products doing whatever they can to hold
on to their share of the market why did
you feel like it was important to make
this about more than just the McDonald's
story I think whenever I do a piece and
and and this was actually the beginning
of a long series I do now where I look
at conspiracies and I actually try to
pull lessons out of them I think that
humans want to believe conspiracies that
there's some evil thing happening
usually the explanation is that the
accurate explanation is much more
informative and and the debate turns
into is the conspiracy correct or is it
completely not correct and often times
it falls somewhere in the middle it's a
much more boring explanation but it
shows us how our world works and that
should be called out when you focus on
the conspiracy you actually let these
people off the hook because there's
actually just corporate protectionism
happening here and that's shitty and
that should be called out I try this
with every one of my pieces to like
bring it back to a real world lesson
that we can learn about how the world
Works to me that's that's my mission is
to like make sure that someone walks
away with a better understanding of not
just this topic but like the the grand
theories that govern incentives and
business and all of that it's the same
old story of keeping tight control over
what data and experience the user has so
that they can continue to maintain their
exclusive relationship with services and
repairs which is 25% of their business
it's honestly smart shrewd Cutthroat
business Behavior but for now next time
you're at McDonald's and they don't have
ice cream just know that it's not
because of lazy employees it's not
because of lack of training it's because
there's an old relationship between two
old
companies that don't want things to
change did you script out that closing
line that was so powerful I think I
think I did yeah I I don't actually
remember it's a little wordier than I
would write today but um but I think I I
probably had that written and just sort
of Rift on it a couple ways of like I
wanted that to be the poignant very
clear takeaway yeah and and the way that
it ended I think was exactly right any
other thoughts on the video that was to
me a masterpiece thank you honestly I
really cut my teeth in in in a lot of
the investigative stuff that I do now in
this process this was a really fun piece
it was obviously sweet to The Taste to a
lot of people but I do this same thing
now for almost every one of my pieces
it's just not as like sexy and kind of
dramatic and Universal but like when I
go down deep down on like the kind of
CIA you know the sins of the CIA I I'm
actually much more rigorous than I was
on this and it's fun to go back and see
like this was my entry point into like
obsessing over primary source evidence
not taking no for an answer and like
really going there and I think the world
needs that we need to keep people
accountable and if we can do it in kind
of a entertaining fun way like that's
the beauty of Journalism on YouTube dude
that's amazing well it's cool to look at
your password can see room for
improvement even though this one got 12
million views yeah yeah yeah uh and I
appreciate you break it down man is
great super fun